In the last lecture, we learned how to navigate programmatically,
now I want to also have a look at how we can use relative paths there.
So back in our servers component, let's say we have again our reload page link
but this time it's a button here with button button primary
and still we might use this approach because we want to do some different things.
So reload page and here, I will have my click listener, onReload maybe.
So if we now go to our TypeScript code, here onReload will simply or will be the method which gets
triggered and we already inject this
serversService here,
I also want to inject the router, so let's add router here,
make sure to add the import from @angular/router.
So we learned that now we could say this router navigate and now let's add /servers here.
If we do this and we save this page and we go to the servers page and click reload, nothing happens, we
don't get an error because we are already on that page.
Technically it still reloads the page
but keep in mind, it never sends a request so this reload icon will never spin
but Angular simply determined that we are on this page, so no further action is needed.
Now let's say we remove the slash at the beginning,
so we turn this into a relative path and we still are on the servers component,
keep this in mind.
So now if this reloaded and we click this page, we still don't get an error
and now this might be strange because before when we use the routerLink, you saw that we did get an
error because it would try to add servers to the end of this path
and of course this route now doesn't exist.
So why does it work fine if we use the navigate method? Because unlike the routerLink, the navigate method
doesn't know on which route you are currently on, so to say. The routerLink always knows in which component
it sits, in which components template and therefore it knows what the currently loaded route is.
Now you could argue that here we also call this inside the component TypeScript code, so it could determine
where it is in but it's just not how it works.
So to tell this where we currently are in, we have to pass a second argument to the navigate method
which is a Javascript object
and here we can configure this navigation action.
Now I will come back to this later because there are more things we can add but one configuration is the
relativeTo property here.
Here we define relative to which route this link should be loaded and by default, this is always the
root domain, which is why we didn't get an error for
this servers path.
Here we have to give a route though, so we don't pass a string here,
instead the route is something we can inject here too.
We can get the currently active route by injecting route which is of type ActivatedRoute and make
sure to import ActivatedRoute from the @angular/router package too. Now ActivatedRoute like the
name implies simply injects the currently active routes, so for the component you loaded,
this will be the route which loaded this component and the route simply is kind of a complex Javascript
object which keeps a lot of meta information about the currently active route.
Now we can set this as a value, so this route, this injected route
for the relativeTo property
and now with that extra piece of information, Angular knows what our currently active route is
and theoretically you could also set this to some other route which you would have to get by some way.
So here, we are telling it now our currently active routes is this ActivatedRoute, so relative to this
route
you should navigate and then it will simply resolve all the relative paths you might have here relative
to this route.
So with this change in place, if we now click this button again,
now we broke the app because now it again tries to find servers/servers which doesn't exist.
So great
we broke the app but with that, you should understand how you can work with relative paths in the navigate
method you defined relative to what this paths should be loaded,
the default is the route URL, that might be the behavior you're looking for, it might not be the behavior
you're looking for,
you can change it with this extra Javascript object,
second argument to the navigate method where you have the relativeTo property
you can set to the route you want to navigate relativeTo.
For now, I will simply comment this out to disable this not working button and still keep the code in
this example project.